.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

## Description

Please include a summary of the changes and the related issue. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Fixes # (issue)

## Checklist

- Is this feature complete?
  - [ ] Yes. Ready to ship.
  - [ ] No. Follow-up changes expected.
- Are you including unit tests for the changes and scenario tests if relevant?
  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No
- Did you add public API?
  - [ ] Yes
    - If yes, did you have an API Review for it?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
    - Did you add `<remarks />` and `<code />` elements on your triple slash comments?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
  - [ ] No
- Does the change make any security assumptions or guarantees?
  - [ ] Yes
    - If yes, have you done a threat model and had a security review?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
  - [ ] No
- Does the change require an update in our Aspire docs?
  - [ ] Yes
    - Is this introducing a breaking change?
      - [ ] Yes
        - Link to aspire-docs issue (please use this [`breaking-change` template](https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/new?template=04-breaking-change.yml)):
      - [ ] No
        - Link to aspire-docs issue (please use this [`doc-idea` template](https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/new?template=02-docs-request.yml)):
  - [ ] No

Commit message:

Update pull_request_template.md (#8848)
Add link to new issue template for docs.

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

## Description

Please include a summary of the changes and the related issue. Please also include relevant motivation and context. List any dependencies that are required for this change.

Fixes # (issue)

## Checklist

- Is this feature complete?
  - [ ] Yes. Ready to ship.
  - [ ] No. Follow-up changes expected.
- Are you including unit tests for the changes and scenario tests if relevant?
  - [ ] Yes
  - [ ] No
- Did you add public API?
  - [ ] Yes
    - If yes, did you have an API Review for it?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
    - Did you add `<remarks />` and `<code />` elements on your triple slash comments?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
  - [ ] No
- Does the change make any security assumptions or guarantees?
  - [ ] Yes
    - If yes, have you done a threat model and had a security review?
      - [ ] Yes
      - [ ] No
  - [ ] No
- Does the change require an update in our Aspire docs?
  - [ ] Yes
    - Link to aspire-docs issue (consider using one of the following templates):
      - [New (or update) `doc-idea` template](https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/new?template=02-docs-request.yml)
      - [New `breaking-change` template](https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/new?template=04-breaking-change.yml)
      - [New `diagnostic` template](https://github.com/dotnet/docs-aspire/issues/new?template=06-diagnostic-addition.yml)
  - [ ] No
