eng/scripts/README.md, before:

# Aspire CLI Download Scripts

This directory contains scripts to download and install the Aspire CLI for different platforms.

## Scripts

- **`get-aspire-cli.sh`** - Bash script for Unix-like systems (Linux, macOS)
- **`get-aspire-cli.ps1`** - PowerShell script for cross-platform use (Windows, Linux, macOS)

## Current Limitations

⚠️ **Important**: Currently, only the following combination works:
- **Version**: `9.0`
- **Quality**: `daily`

Other version/quality combinations are not yet available through the download URLs.

## Parameters

### Bash Script (`get-aspire-cli.sh`)

| Parameter        | Short | Description                                       | Default               |
|------------------|-------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| `--install-path` | `-i`  | Directory to install the CLI                      | `$HOME/.aspire/bin`   |
| `--version`      |       | Version of the Aspire CLI to download             | `9.0`                 |
| `--quality`      | `-q`  | Quality to download                               | `daily`               |
| `--os`           |       | Operating system (auto-detected if not specified) | auto-detect           |
| `--arch`         |       | Architecture (auto-detected if not specified)     | auto-detect           |
| `--keep-archive` | `-k`  | Keep downloaded archive files after installation  | `false`               |
| `--verbose`      | `-v`  | Enable verbose output                             | `false`               |
| `--help`         | `-h`  | Show help message                                 |                       |

### PowerShell Script (`get-aspire-cli.ps1`)

| Parameter       | Description                                       | Default                          |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------|
| `-InstallPath`  | Directory to install the CLI                     | `$HOME/.aspire/bin` (Unix) / `%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin` (Windows) |
| `-Version`      | Version of the Aspire CLI to download             | `9.0`                            |
| `-Quality`      | Quality to download                               | `daily`                          |
| `-OS`           | Operating system (auto-detected if not specified) | auto-detect                      |
| `-Architecture` | Architecture (auto-detected if not specified)     | auto-detect                      |
| `-KeepArchive`  | Keep downloaded archive files after installation  | `false`                          |
| `-Help`         | Show help message                                 |                                  |

## Install Path Parameter

The `--install-path` (bash) or `-InstallPath` (PowerShell) parameter specifies where the Aspire CLI will be installed:

- **Default behavior**:
  - **Unix systems**: `$HOME/.aspire/bin`
  - **Windows**: `%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin`
- **Custom path**: You can specify any directory path where you want the CLI installed
- **Directory creation**: The scripts will automatically create the directory if it doesn't exist
- **PATH integration**: The scripts automatically update the current session's PATH and add to shell profiles for persistent access
- **Final location**: The CLI executable will be placed directly in the specified directory as:
  - `aspire` (on Linux/macOS)
  - `aspire.exe` (on Windows)

### Example Install Paths

```bash
# Default - installs to $HOME/.aspire/bin/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh

# Custom path - installs to /usr/local/bin/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/usr/local/bin"

# Relative path - installs to ../tools/aspire-cli/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "../tools/aspire-cli"
```

## Usage Examples

### Bash Script Examples

```bash
# Basic usage - download to default location ($HOME/.aspire/bin)
./get-aspire-cli.sh

# Specify custom install directory
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/usr/local/bin"

# Download with verbose output
./get-aspire-cli.sh --verbose

# Keep the downloaded archive files for inspection
./get-aspire-cli.sh --keep-archive

# Force specific OS and architecture (useful for cross-compilation scenarios)
./get-aspire-cli.sh --os "linux" --arch "x64"

# Combine multiple options
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/tmp/aspire" --verbose --keep-archive
```

### PowerShell Script Examples

```powershell
# Basic usage - download to default location (%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin or $HOME/.aspire/bin)
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1

# Specify custom install directory
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\Tools\Aspire"

# Download with verbose output
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -Verbose

# Keep the downloaded archive files for inspection
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -KeepArchive

# Force specific OS and architecture
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -OS "win" -Architecture "x64"

# Combine multiple options
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\temp\aspire" -Verbose -KeepArchive
```

## Supported Runtime Identifiers

The following runtime identifier (RID) combinations are available:

| Runtime Identifier | AOTed |
|-------------------|-------------|
| `win-x64` | ✅ |
| `win-arm64` | ✅ |
| `win-x86` | ❌ |
| `linux-x64` | ✅ |
| `linux-arm64` | ❌ |
| `linux-musl-x64` | ❌ |
| `osx-x64` | ✅ |
| `osx-arm64` | ✅ |

The non-aot binaries are self-contained executables.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Unsupported platform" error**: Your OS/architecture combination may not be supported
2. **"Failed to download" error**: Check your internet connection and firewall settings
3. **"Checksum validation failed" error**: The download may have been corrupted; try again
4. **"HTML error page" error**: The requested version/platform combination may not be available

### Getting Help

Run the scripts with the help flag to see detailed usage information:

```bash
./get-aspire-cli.sh --help
```

```powershell
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -Help
```

## Contributing

When modifying these scripts, ensure:
- Both scripts maintain feature parity where possible
- Error handling is comprehensive and user-friendly
- Platform detection logic is robust
- Security best practices are followed for downloads and file handling

Commit message:

[release/9.4] Backporting a few get-aspire-cli script PRs (#10586)

eng/scripts/README.md, after:

# Aspire CLI Download Scripts

This directory contains scripts to download and install the Aspire CLI for different platforms.

## Scripts

- **`get-aspire-cli.sh`** - Bash script for Unix-like systems (Linux, macOS)
- **`get-aspire-cli.ps1`** - PowerShell script for cross-platform use (Windows, Linux, macOS)

## Current Limitations

Supported Quality values:

- `dev` - builds from the `main` branch
- `staging` - builds from the current `release` branch like `release/9.4`
- `ga` - build for the latest GA

## Parameters

### Bash Script (`get-aspire-cli.sh`)

| Parameter        | Short | Description                                       | Default               |
|------------------|-------|---------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| `--install-path` | `-i`  | Directory to install the CLI                      | `$HOME/.aspire/bin`   |
| `--version`      |       | Version of the Aspire CLI to download             | `9.0`                 |
| `--quality`      | `-q`  | Quality to download                               | `release`             |
| `--os`           |       | Operating system (auto-detected if not specified) | auto-detect           |
| `--arch`         |       | Architecture (auto-detected if not specified)     | auto-detect           |
| `--keep-archive` | `-k`  | Keep downloaded archive files after installation  | `false`               |
| `--verbose`      | `-v`  | Enable verbose output                             | `false`               |
| `--help`         | `-h`  | Show help message                                 |                       |

### PowerShell Script (`get-aspire-cli.ps1`)

| Parameter       | Description                                       | Default                                                            |
|-----------------|---------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `-InstallPath`  | Directory to install the CLI                      | `$HOME/.aspire/bin` (Unix) / `%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin` (Windows) |
| `-Version`      | Version of the Aspire CLI to download             | `9.0`                                                              |
| `-Quality`      | Quality to download                               | `release`                                                          |
| `-OS`           | Operating system (auto-detected if not specified) | auto-detect                                                        |
| `-Architecture` | Architecture (auto-detected if not specified)     | auto-detect                                                        |
| `-KeepArchive`  | Keep downloaded archive files after installation  | `false`                                                            |
| `-Help`         | Show help message                                 |                                                                    |

## Install Path Parameter

The `--install-path` (bash) or `-InstallPath` (PowerShell) parameter specifies where the Aspire CLI will be installed:

- **Default behavior**:
  - **Unix systems**: `$HOME/.aspire/bin`
  - **Windows**: `%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin`
- **Custom path**: You can specify any directory path where you want the CLI installed
- **Directory creation**: The scripts will automatically create the directory if it doesn't exist
- **PATH integration**: The scripts automatically update the current session's PATH and add to shell profiles for persistent access
- **Final location**: The CLI executable will be placed directly in the specified directory as:
  - `aspire` (on Linux/macOS)
  - `aspire.exe` (on Windows)

### Example Install Paths

```bash
# Default - installs to $HOME/.aspire/bin/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh

# Custom path - installs to /usr/local/bin/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/usr/local/bin"

# Relative path - installs to ../tools/aspire-cli/aspire
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "../tools/aspire-cli"
```

## Usage Examples

### Bash Script Examples

```bash
# Basic usage - download to default location ($HOME/.aspire/bin)
./get-aspire-cli.sh

# Specify custom install directory
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/usr/local/bin"

# Download with verbose output
./get-aspire-cli.sh --verbose

# Keep the downloaded archive files for inspection
./get-aspire-cli.sh --keep-archive

# Force specific OS and architecture (useful for cross-compilation scenarios)
./get-aspire-cli.sh --os "linux" --arch "x64"

# Combine multiple options
./get-aspire-cli.sh --install-path "/tmp/aspire" --verbose --keep-archive
```

### PowerShell Script Examples

```powershell
# Basic usage - download to default location (%USERPROFILE%\.aspire\bin or $HOME/.aspire/bin)
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1

# Specify custom install directory
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\Tools\Aspire"

# Download with verbose output
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -Verbose

# Keep the downloaded archive files for inspection
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -KeepArchive

# Force specific OS and architecture
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -OS "win" -Architecture "x64"

# Combine multiple options
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -InstallPath "C:\temp\aspire" -Verbose -KeepArchive
```

## Supported Runtime Identifiers

The following runtime identifier (RID) combinations are available:

| Runtime Identifier | AOTed |
|-------------------|-------------|
| `win-x64` | ✅ |
| `win-arm64` | ✅ |
| `win-x86` | ❌ |
| `linux-x64` | ✅ |
| `linux-arm64` | ❌ |
| `linux-musl-x64` | ❌ |
| `osx-x64` | ✅ |
| `osx-arm64` | ✅ |

The non-aot binaries are self-contained executables.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Unsupported platform" error**: Your OS/architecture combination may not be supported
2. **"Failed to download" error**: Check your internet connection and firewall settings
3. **"Checksum validation failed" error**: The download may have been corrupted; try again
4. **"HTML error page" error**: The requested version/platform combination may not be available

### Getting Help

Run the scripts with the help flag to see detailed usage information:

```bash
./get-aspire-cli.sh --help
```

```powershell
.\get-aspire-cli.ps1 -Help
```

## Contributing

When modifying these scripts, ensure:
- Both scripts maintain feature parity where possible
- Error handling is comprehensive and user-friendly
- Platform detection logic is robust
- Security best practices are followed for downloads and file handling
